+++
date = "2016-08-01"
title = "Spell Editor: Base Spell Tab"
original_url = "/menu/tools/spell-editor/base.html"

[menu.main]
    identifier = "spell-editor_base"
    name = "Spell Editor: Base Spell Tab"
    parent = "spell-editor"
    
+++
![basetab.png](../../../images/editors/spell/basetab.png)

The **Base Tab** has everything required to make a simple Spell.  The
remaining tabs are for more advanced Spell creation.  The Spells created
will be saved into the data/custom directory under the name of
customSpells.lst.

The **Spell Name** is where you will enter the name for your Spell.

The **Desc Product Identity** checkbox is to denote if the Spell's name
being created is the Product Identity of a publisher

The **Description** window is where you will type in a description of
the Spell powers (i.e. "+1 attack, +1 on saves against fear, 1d8
temporary hit points.")

The **Components** options determines the combination of components
necessary to cast this spells (Verbal, Somatic, etc)

The **School** determines what magic school the spell belongs to and is
used for specialist wizards to determine their favored schools bonus
spells.

The **Casting Time** determines the time it takes to cast this spell.

The **Subschool** determines what sub-school the spell belongs to and is
used for specialist wizards to determine their favored schools bonus
spells.

The **Range** determines the range that the spell has.

The **Target Area** determines the Target, Area, or Effects that the
spell has.

The **Duration** determines how long the spell lasts.

The **Saving Throw** determines if there is a save and if so what type.

The **Spell Resistance** determines whether the target can try to resist
the spell based on their Spell Resistance number and if so the effect of
the resistance.

The **Component Cost** determines the cost of the spells components.

The **XP Cost** determines how much the spell costs to cast, used for
determining potion, wand, etc costs.

The **Allowed Magic Types** determines what types of items this spell
can be used to make.

The **Duration** determines how long the spell lasts.

The **Source** field is a text window for listing what source material
the Spell is from. If it is a custom created Spell, then you can leave
this blank or simply put in "custom"

The **Product Identity** checkbox is to denote if the Spell's name being
created is the Product Identity of a publisher

The **Cancel** and **Save** buttons, which appear on every tab, are used
to either cancel the Spell creation or save it to the customSpells.lst
file.



