+++
date = "2016-08-01"
title = "Notes Tab"
original_url = "/gmgen/notes.html"

[menu.main]
    identifier = "gmgen_notes"
    name = "Notes Tab"
    parent = "gmgen"
    
+++
The notes system will help you organize notes about your game, campaign
world, and other gaming related topics.

![GMGen's Notes
Tab](../images/gmgen/plugins/notes/gmgen_03_notestab.png)

To the left, is the tree, and to the right is the note 'word processor'.
By clicking on a node in the tree, it loads that subject into the word
processor to be read or edited.

You can create new nodes by using the New Node button above. This will
create a node below the selected one that can contain a new note. An
asterisk (\*) next to the name of a node indicates that the node has not
been saved.

You can export a whole notes branch by clicking on a folder and then
hitting export. It creates a .gmn file that can be loaded into another
copy of GMGen Notes

![GMGen's Notes
Toolbar](../images/gmgen/plugins/notes/gmgen_03_notesbar.png)

The tools on the toolbar can be detached from the main window by
clicking on the space to the left of the tool group. The detached tool
group becomes a floating palette you can position to your liking and
will remain in front of the GMGen window at all times. To reattach the
palette click and drag the palette by the space to the left of the
tools, when the palette is positioned over the toolbar it will be
highlighted in red. Let go and the palette will nest itself back into
the main window.

The notes system is intended to organize not only your notes, but your
gaming files as well. You can drag and drop files into the word
processing window, and it will create an icon for it at the bottom. This
icon can be double clicked to launch the file in the appropriate
application. You can also drag and drop files on any node in the tree,
and it will store the file inside that node, instead of the active node
(the one who's word processor is active). If the file you store is a
GMGen related file (\*.pcg, \*.gmi, \*.gmn, \*.dbg) double clicking it
launches it into the appropriate plugin.

![Filing GMGen
Notes](../images/gmgen/plugins/notes/gmgen_03_notesfile.png)

By default GMGen notes and files are created and stored in the
plugins/notes folder in PCGen. This can be changed to any directory you
wish by setting a location in the [GMGen
Preferences](/gmgen/preferences.html#notes) .

------------------------------------------------------------------------



