+++
date = "2016-08-01"
title = "Source Selection Options"
original_url = "/menu/sources/selection.html"

[menu.main]
    identifier = "sources_selection"
    name = "Source Selection Options"
    parent = "sources"
    
+++
This window will load the data sets of your choice into PCGen. There are
two modes of source selection, the **Basic** mode and the **Advanced**
mode, each with its own **Select Sources** tab.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<span id="basic"></span> The Basic Sources Selection Tab
--------------------------------------------------------

The **Basic** source select tab presents a number of preconfigured data
sets for loading.

![Sourses Menu
Options](../../images/menus/sources/menu_sources_01_basic.png)

To load a preconfigured set you must first click on the desired set then
click on the **Load** button. PCGen will change to the appropriate
**Gamemode** and load the preconfigured data sets. You can add your own
custom configurations to this list with the **Save Source Selection**
button on the [Advanced](/menu/sources/selection.html#advanced) tab.

![Hide/Unhide
Sourses](../../images/menus/sources/menu_sources_01_visible.png)

The **Hide/Unhide** button will allow you to hide or make visible any of
the data sets listed. When you click on the button the **Select Sources
to be visible** window pops up. Unckecking any source will hide it while
checking it will make it visible in the Basic Select Sources tab.

The [**Install Data**](/menu/sources/install-data.html) button will
allow you to install an Out-of-Cycle (OOC) Data Set.

The **Cancel** button will close the **Select Sources** window without
loading any data sets.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

<span id="advanced"></span> The Advanced Sources Selection Tab
--------------------------------------------------------------

The **Advanced** source selection tab allows the user to select from the
complete list of data sets for loading.

![Sourses Menu
Options](../../images/menus/sources/menu_sources_01_gamemodes.png)

Data sets are configured to run in specific **Gamemodes** so the first
step in loading data sets with the advanced tab is to select from the
available gamemodes. Clicking on the **Game** drop-down menu will
present a list of installed gamemodes. Clicking on the desired gamemode
will present the compatible data sets in the **Advanced** tab's left
pane.

![Sourses Menu
Options](../../images/menus/sources/menu_sources_01_advanced.png)

To load data sets the user will select the desired sets, one at a time,
and click the **Add Selected &gt;** button. The selected sets will be
added to the right pane. Data sets can also be selected for loading by
double-clicking on the sets, moving the set to the right pane
automatically. The **&lt; Remove Selected** button can be used to remove
data sets from the right pane. Once all desired sets have been placed
into the right pane the user completes the loading process by clicking
on the **Load** button.

<span id="savecustom"></span>![Sourses Menu
Options](../../images/menus/sources/menu_sources_01_savecustom.png)

Customized campaign sets can be created and saved by moving the desired
sets to the right pane and then clicking the **Save Source Selection**
button. The **Save the source selection** window will appear and the
user will enter a name for the new campaign file. The newly created
campaign file will be added to the list of preconfigured campaign files
displayed on the **Basic** source selection tab.

The [**Install Data**](/menu/sources/install-data.html) button will
allow you to install an Out-of-Cycle (OOC) Data Set.

The **Cancel** button will close the **Select Sources** window without
loading/changing data sets.

------------------------------------------------------------------------



