+++
date = "2016-08-01"
title = "Revised (v.3.5) System Reference Document help file"
original_url = "/source/fantasy/rsrd.html"

[menu.main]
    identifier = "fantasy_rsrd"
    name = "Revised (v.3.5) System Reference Document help file"
    parent = "fantasy"
    
+++
**Game Mode: 35e**

RSRD &gt; COMPLETE

**3.5 RSRD**

RSRD &gt; PARTIAL

**3.5 RSRD Basics**

**3.5 RSRD Advanced**

**3.5 RSRD Monsters**

**3.5 RSRD Psionics**

**3.5 RSRD Epic**

**3.5 RSRD Epic Psionics**

**3.5 RSRD Divine**

RSRD &gt; CAMPAIGN

**3.5 RSRD - Campaign Set - Core Book I**

**3.5 RSRD - Campaign Set - Core Books I and II**

**3.5 RSRD - Campaign Set - Core Books I, II and III**

**3.5 RSRD - Campaign Set - No Psionics**

The (Revised) System Reference Document, or RSRD, contains the core
rules for the d20 fantasy role playing game published by Wizards of the
Coast under the Open Gaming License and contains much of the material
found in the three core books and the Psionics supplement.

Loading the RSRD
----------------

To load the RSRD set you have three options, you can load the 3.5 RSRD
Complete set, you can load the 3.5 RSRD Basics set and any of the other
Partial 3.5 RSRD sets or you can load one (and only one) of the campaign
sets. You should not load the 3.5 RSRD Complete set and any of the
Partial sets or Campaign sets at the same time because it is basically
loading the same data twice. If you load any of the Partial sets keep in
mind that the 3.5 RSRD Basics set is required for any of the other
Partial sets. The Partial sets are designed to allow you to pick and
choose which options you wish to include while the Campaign sets are
designed to facilitate a specific style of play. When using a Campaign
set do not load any other RSRD sets with it.

The basics set contains objects which are called from more than one of
the other sets for example it includes Monster Classes and Magical
Enhancement Equipment Modifiers, this is to keep things simplified but
it does mean that the Basics set contains material found in other
sections of the RSRD and is not necessarily limited to material found in
the Core Rule Book. This is one reason the Campaign sets were created. A
word of caution: because the Core Book I Campaign set contains only
material found in Core Book I you may experience problems if this is
loaded with a third party dataset which requires objects (such as
Monster Classes and Magical Enhancement Equipment Modifiers) not
included in it.

Class Features
--------------

**Arcane Archer**

The Arcane Archer has the ability to enchant any non-magical arrow
notched in his bow. This feature cannot be automatically enabled in
PCGen. To have the effects of this feature activated you must customize
a non-magical arrow with the Arcane Archer Enhancement equipment
modifier. Ammo with this EQMOD applied to it and loaded in a bow will
display the proper bonuses for the Arcane Archers level. A PC with no
levels of Arcane Archer will gain no benefit.

Domains
-------

Some Domains grant Casterlevel bonuses to spells of Certain Schools,
Subschools or Descriptors as detailed in the Domains description. These
bonuses are not active by default because of a limitation within PCGen.
Domains are class abilities and the casterlevel bonuses should only
apply to spells granted from the same class granting the Domain. PCGen
cannot limit this and will apply a bonus to any qualifying spell
regardless of what class it comes from. For example if you create a
Cleric/Wizard with the Knowledge Domain it would grant a +1 Casterlevel
bonus to all Divination spells Cleric and Wizard alike. We have provided
a way to activate these bonuses, Under Settings -&gt; Preferences -&gt;
House Rules you will find the rule "Apply Casterlevel Bonuses from
Domains to Spells". Checking this box will activate these bonuses. Note
that if your character does not have spells from other classes you will
not be breaking any rules.

Some Domains grant certain skills as class skills, be aware that these
class skills are applied to the Cleric class only.

Templates
---------

**Awakened Animal**

The Awakened Animal template can be applied to any animal on which the
spell Awaken has been cast. All the effects of the spell are implemented
including the random stat adjustments to the Animals Intelligence and
Charisma. However if you remove the template the stats will not revert
back, you will need to manually change them back to where they were. You
will also need to remove the language added by the template and any
skill points spent on skill ranks.



