+++
date = "2016-08-01"
title = "Loading Campaign Materials: Basic Mode"
original_url = "/walkthrough/load-campaign-basic.html"

[menu.main]
    identifier = "walkthrough_load-campaign-basic"
    name = "Loading Campaign Materials: Basic Mode"
    parent = "walkthrough"
    
+++
This page is broken into three sections:

[Basic Source
Loading](/walkthrough/load-campaign-basic.html#basicsourceloading)

[Loading Additional
Sources](/walkthrough/load-campaign-basic.html#additionalsources)

[Creating New Source
Collections](/walkthrough/load-campaign-basic.html#newcollections)

For the advanced method for loading sources check out the [Loading
Campaign Materials: Advanced
Mode](/walkthrough/load-campaign-advanced.html) page.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### <span id="basicsourceloading"></span> Basic Source Loading

1.  PCGen is configured to launch the "Load Sources" window when
    launched for the first time after a clean install.

    ![Basic Load Sources Window](../images/windows/load_sources.png)

    If the window does not pop-up upon launching of PCGen you can call
    it up by selecting the "Load Sources" item on the "Settings" menu.
    This can be found under the [**Settings-Load
    Sources**](/menu/settings/source-loading.html) menu.

    ![Choosing Load Sources](../images/menus/settings_loadsources.png)

2.  To load one of the standard configurations, listed below, simply
    select the set desired and then click the **LOAD** button near the
    lower-right of the window. PCGen will then switch to the appropriate
    GameMode and will load the sets contained in the selected
    configuration file.

    As of PCGen 5.17.x, the Standard Configurations provided as part of
    the basic mode of source loading include the following sets:

    -   MSRD: [d20 Modern System Reference
        Document](http://www.wizards.com/D20/article.asp?x=msrd)
    -   SRD 3.0 for Players: [System Reference
        Document](http://groups.yahoo.com/group/pcgen/files/3.0%20SRD/)
    -   SRD 3.5 for Players: [Revised (v.3.5) System Reference
        Document](http://www.wizards.com/D20/article.asp?x=srd35)
    -   SRD 3.5 for Game Masters (Includes Monsters): [Revised (v.3.5)
        System Reference
        Document](http://www.wizards.com/D20/article.asp?x=srd35)
    -   Pathfinder RPG for Players: [Pathfinder Roleplaying Game
        Reference Document](http://paizo.com/pathfinderRPG/prd/)
    -   Pathfinder RPG for Players - Advanced: [Pathfinder Roleplaying
        Game Reference Document](http://paizo.com/pathfinderRPG/prd/)
    -   Pathfinder RPG for Game Masters (Includes Monsters): [Pathfinder
        Roleplaying Game Reference
        Document](http://paizo.com/pathfinderRPG/prd/)

3.  You may now create your new character.

**Optional:** Before creating a character, you may wish to examine
and/or modify the settings PCGen uses for all characters. This allows
certaincommon "house rules" to override official rules for a system.
This can be found under the
[**Settings-Preferences**](/menu/settings/preferences.html) menu.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### <span id="additionalsources"></span> Loading Additional Sources After a Loading a Standard Source Collection

Once a standard configuration has been loaded you can add other source
files from the same **GameMode** . The following are the steps to
followed:

1.  Follow the instructions contained in **Step 4** on the [Loading
    Campaign Materials: Advanced
    Mode](/walkthrough/load-campaign-advanced.html) page to find and add
    additional sources to be loaded.

2.  Once all desired additional sources have been added, ckick on the
    "Unload All" button.

    ![Loading Campaing Materials](../images/tabs/sourcematerial.png)

3.  Click on the "Load" button.

4.  You may now create your new character.

**Optional:** Before creating a character, you may wish to examine
and/or modify the settings PCGen uses for all characters. This allows
certaincommon "house rules" to override official rules for a system.
This can be found under the
[**Settings-Preferences**](/menu/settings/preferences.html) menu.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

### <span id="newcollections"></span> Creating New Source Collections

The source collections made available as part of the basic source
loading mode are a small fraction, albeit popular, subset of the data
sets available within PCGen and chances are that you will eventually
want to add a few of these additional sets to your loaded sets. The
previous section covers how to add the additional data sets but if you
add enough additional sets on a regular basis you are likely to want a
new short-cut to load all of those files. PCGen has the ability to
create this short-cut for you and make it available as part of the basic
source loading window.

Following the steps listed below will help you in the creation of a
customized "Source Collection":

1.  Open the "Load Sources" window and click on the "Add" button.

    ![Basic Load Sources Window](../images/windows/load_sources.png)

2.  On the "Create New Source Collection" window you will need to
    select, with the pull-down menu, the **GameMode** with which you
    will be working. Click "Ok".

    ![Create New Source Collection
    Window](../images/windows/createnewsourcecollection1.png)

3.  Move the data sets you wish to load from the left "Available Source
    Material" pane, to the right "Selected Source Material" pane. This
    is done similarly to the way data sets are loaded under the
    [Advanced Mode](/walkthrough/load-campaign-advanced.html) .

    ![Create New Source Collection
    Window](../images/windows/createnewsourcecollection2.png)

4.  Enter a "Source Collection Title" in the field at the bottom of the
    window and click "ok".

    **Congratulations!** You have now successfully created a custom
    Source Collection.

------------------------------------------------------------------------



