+++
date = "2016-08-01"
title = "PCGen Open Gaming Content - Psicrystal Hit Dice"
original_url = "/source/pcgen-ogc-psicrystal-hd.html"

[menu.main]
    identifier = "source_pcgen-ogc-psicrystal-hd"
    name = "PCGen Open Gaming Content - Psicrystal Hit Dice"
    parent = "source"
    
+++
**Game Mode: 35e**

PCGEN

**PCGen Open Gaming Content - Psicrystal Hit Dice**

The PCGen Open Gaming Content - Psicrystal Hit Dice dataset is designed
to modify Psicrystals in the RSRD Psionics dataset so that they gain hit
dice as the Master progresses in class levels.

The need for this originates from certain interpretations of the
Psicrystal rules which hold that Psicrystals gain hit dice as the Master
progresses in class levels and by extension also gain feats every 3
levels and stat bumps every 4. The dataset was not coded in this way and
the designers apparently never intended this, however no errata has been
published to refute or clarify this interpretation. This set is provided
for those who wish to play Psicrystals under this interpretation.

This set must be loaded with the RSRD Psionics set or the RSRD Complete
set (which includes Psionics). When loaded it adds Hit Dice (Monster
Class Levels) equal to the masters Psionic class levels. It also adds a
point to the feat pool at first, third and every three levels after.
Every four levels it grants a 1 point increase to an attribute of the
users choice.

**Note:** An unmodified Psicrystal is granted Alertness as a virtual
feat, this set disables that, Alertness must be purchased with a feat
point if it is desired.

### Additional Feature

The rules state that a Psicrystal has at least 4 Ranks in Spot, Listen,
Move Silently, and Search even if it's Master does not. PCGen cannot
implement this automatically so 4 temporary bonuses can be activated
manually by the user to bring the ranks of these skills up to 4 if the
Master is lacking. They can be found in the Temporary Bonuses sub-tab of
the Inventory Tab under templates. Each starts with the name "Psicrystal
Skills" and allows you to set the Rank from 1 to 4.

------------------------------------------------------------------------



