+++
date = "2016-08-01"
title = "House Rules Menu Options"
original_url = "/menu/settings/character/house-rules.html"

[menu.main]
    identifier = "character_house-rules"
    name = "House Rules Menu Options"
    parent = "character"
    
+++
![House Rules Menu Options](../../../images/preferences/houserules.png)

The **House Rules** option allows certain house rules to be applied.
These are customizable rules that are not the default guidelines
established by the Players Rules. The checkmark by each option signifies
that it is selected to be used for PC creation. **House Rules** are
saved separately for each gameMode and each gamemode may have it's own
specific set of house rules. The rules pictured above are from the 3.5
gameMode.

The **Cross-class Skill Cost** rule has been deprecated.

The **Allow any range for ability scores** allows for ability scores
below 8 and above 18, specifically using the optional Point Buy system.
Unchecked one cannot create a point buy method outside the ranges of 8
and 18. Please note that you must check this box, close the preferences
and open them back up again before you can create a point buy method of
any range.

**Do ammunition enhancement bonus stack with those of the weapon**
determine if a ranged weapon and it's ammunition stack their enhancement
bonuses when the ammo is loaded in the weapon. In 3.0 rules the default
is yes (checked), in 3.5 rules the default is no (unchecked).

The **Add stat bonus to spells known** adds to a characters number of
spells known using the Table:Ability Modifiers and Bonus Spells.
Normally characters with a limited number of spells known such as Bards
and Sorcerers do not get bonus spells known due to high ability scores.

The **Bypass Class Prerequisites** allows the user to ignore the
prerequisites for a class and allows them to qualify for any class
available regardless of what the material allows.

The **Treat Weapons In Hand As Equipped For Attacks** option allows all
weapons that are merely listed as 'equipped' but no in hand in the
inventory of the character to be calculated as if the item were equipped
in hand.

The **Bypass Feat Prerequisites** allows the user to ignore the
prerequisites for a feat. If you wish to utilize this option it is
recommended that you turn it back off once you have made your feat
selections. Having this option enabled will cause problems when leveling
up many classes due to the prerequisites being bypassed in hidden feats
used by the class.

The **Ask For Free Clothing at First Level** presents the user with a
pop-up when first creating the PC asking the user to select a free set
of clothing for the PC to wear. Deselecting this option will prevent the
pop-up from appearing. This feature is hardcoded to use the equipment
type "Starting" which has been added to qualifying clothing.

The **Increment STAT before calculating skills points before leveling**
allows the user to decide if skill points are determined before or after
a character gets their increase in stat (in regards to Intelligence
modifying skill points earned)

The **Allow Selection of Int bonus Languages after 1st level** allows a
character to choose additional bonus languages past first level if the
characters INT score increases.

The **Ignore Level Cap** will allow the user to exceed the maximum level
as defined in the data class files.

The **Bypass Maximum Skill Rank** allows the user to ignore the maximum
level for their skills (3+level) and take as many points in any skill as
they wish.

**Apply 3.5 Size Category Penalty to Attacks** . Unchecking this will
cause the size penalty to attacks to be ignored.

**Apply Casterlevel Bonuses from Domains to Spells** . Some Domains
grant Casterlevel bonuses to spells of Certain Schools, Subschools or
Descriptors as detailed in the Domains description. These bonuses are
not active by default because of a limitation within PCGen. Domains are
class abilities and the casterlevel bonuses should only apply to spells
granted from the same class granting the Domain. PCGen cannot limit this
and will apply a bonus to any qualifying spell regardless of what class
it comes from. For example if you create a Cleric/Wizard with the
Knowledge Domain it would grant a +1 Casterlevel bonus to all Divination
spells Cleric and Wizard alike. We have provided a way to activate these
bonuses, Under Settings -&gt; Preferences -&gt; House Rules you will
find the rule "Apply Casterlevel Bonuses from Domains to Spells".
Checking this box will activate these bonuses. Note that if your
character does not have spells from other classes you will not be
breaking any rules.

The **Apply Load Penalty to AC and Skills** sets the appropriate
penalties when a PC's carried equipment changes from normal to light,
medium, or heavy load. This option affects all the penalties going along
with having the appropriate load as determined in the Players Rules. Not
selecting this option will allow the PC to have no adverse affects when
equipping a heavier load than allowed.

The **Apply Weight Penalty to Skills** is similar to the **Apply load
penalty to AC and skills** option but only applies the weight penalty to
skills and not AC. Deselecting this penalty will remove all penalties
with weight to affect the appropriate skills as determined in the
Players Rules.

The **Use Hit Point/Use Vitality and Wound Points** allows the use of
the alternate Vitality and Wound Point system detailed in Unearthed
Arcana.

The 3.5 revision of the rules significantly changed the way weapon sizes
were handled within the game. The **Use 3.5 Weapon Categories / Use 3.0
Weapon Sizes** choice allows the user to choose which version of the
Weapons size rules to use within PCGen.



