+++
date = "2016-08-01"
title = "Window: Abilities"
original_url = "/tab/players/ability.html"

[menu.main]
    identifier = "players_ability"
    name = "Window: Abilities"
    parent = "players"
    
+++
![Window: Abilities](../../images/windows/abilities.png)

The **Abilities** window is where you can assign Languages, see your
special abilities (granted by race & class), add & remove special
abilities, see your existing weapon proficiencies, and add more weapon
proficiencies.

The **Languages** section consists of the display window, where your
languages known will be displayed, the **Skill** & **Other** buttons
which will bring up a selection window to choose languages from.Â  The
**Skill** button allows you to choose languages based on skill points
spent and the **Other** button allows you to select languages based upon
your character stats.

The **Special Abilities** consists of the display window, where all
Special Abilities gained from races and/or classes is displayed and the
**Add** & **Remove** buttons. The **Add** will bring up a window that
allows you to type in your own Special Abilities or select from a list
of Special Abilities pulled from the loaded sources. The **Remove**
button is used to remove Special Abilities added with the **Add**
button. You can only remove Special Abilities you enter yourself,
Special Abilities granted by races, classes or other sources cannot be
removed.

The **Weapon Profs** consists of the display window, which is populated
by your racial and class weapon proficiency lists, and the **Optional
Profs** button that will bring up a new window for you to choose any
weapon proficiencies granted by a race, feat, or class.



