+++
date = "2016-08-01"
title = "PCGen Source Options"
original_url = "/menu/settings/pcgen/sources.html"

[menu.main]
    identifier = "pcgen_sources"
    name = "PCGen Source Options"
    parent = "pcgen"
    
+++
![PCGen Source Options](../../../images/preferences/sources.png)

The **Sources** menu option allows the user to define whether to auto
load the sources with the PC and or when PCGen starts up. It also has
options that allows sources to set particular options in the preferences
area, allow the saving of custom equipment to a specific file and
options that control the display of licenses.

The **Autoload Sources at start** option determines whether the last
used sources will be started with PCGen .

The **Autoload Sources with PC** option determines whether the sources
required for a created PC will be automatically loaded if their file is
opened.

The **Allow options to be set by sources** option determines whether
PCGen will ignore settings lines embedded in source (.pcc) files.

The **Save Custom Equipment to customEquipment.lst** option determines
if custom items created for PCs will be saved for use by other
characters .

The **Display Open Game License on Source Load** option determines
whether PCGen will display the OGL when sources are opened.

The **Display d20 Required Information on Source Load** option
determines whether PCGen will display the d20 information when sources
are opened.

The **Display Sponsors on Source Load** option determines whether PCGen
will display the Sponsor list when sources are opened.

The **Source Display** option determines whether the full company and
product name, initials or web page details will be displayed with source
information.

The **Allow sources to be loaded from web links** option determines if
.pcc files can load source data from web page links or not.

The **Use Advanced Source Selection** option will disable the new source
loading dialog box, allowing the more advanced user to use the older
Source Loading method.

------------------------------------------------------------------------



