+++
date = "2016-08-01"
title = "PCGen Monkey Teams Explained"
original_url = "/faq/monkey-teams-explained.html"

[menu.main]
    identifier = "faq_monkey-teams-explained"
    name = "PCGen Monkey Teams Explained"
    parent = "faq"
    
+++
Who does what?

In the "About" box of PCGen, you'll quickly notice the PCGen has a
monkey theme. Bryan McRoberts chose "Chief Code Monkey" as his title
when he first made PCGen available to the public, and later adopted the
title of Benevolent Dictator. Other teams formed to focus on different
aspects of PCGen, and all have taken to referring to themselves as
monkeys. In the About box we try to list everyone who has contributed to
PCGen in chronological order, and the monkeys are grouped into Code,
Content, Test and Engineering.

Here's a primer on what each team does, see the [Board of
Directors](/credits/bod.html) page for a list of those in charge of each
team:

**Code Monkeys**\
 This team works on the java code. Their issues are located at
<http://jira.pcgen.org> .

**Content**\
 This team encompasses all content published with PCGen. This includes
Data, Docs and Output Sheets.

**Data Monkeys**\
 The Data Monkeys work on the data for all the books you load in PCGen.
They help answer data questions at the PCGenListFileHelp. They have
pcgen\_experimental group where they actually work on the different
books we're trying to get into PCGen. Their issues are located at
<http://jira.pcgen.org> .

**Doc Monkeys**\
 The Doc Monkeys work on the documentation. Their issues are located
<http://jira.pcgen.org> .

**Output Sheet Monkeys (OS Monkeys)**\
 The Output Sheet Monkeys work on the output sheets which are used to
export to character sheets in PCGen. These templates involve xml, xsl
and html. Their issues are located at <http://jira.pcgen.org> .

**Public Relations Monkeys**\
 This team encompasses all public relations work with PCGen. This
includes Publisher Liaison, Data License and Advertising.

**Publisher Liaison Monkeys**\
 This team servers as the contact for all the publishers. This way all
contact with publishers can be more easily managed and consistent.

**Data License Monkeys**\
 This team makes sure that all material included in PCGen meets any
license requirements (not just the OGL).

**Advertising Monkeys**\
 This team deals with Advertising PCGen in magazines etc.

**Admin Monkeys**\
 This is the team that monitors the pcgen yahoo site for bug reports and
feature requests. They also prioritize all issues submitted at the JIRA
site and generally organise the project.

More Detailed Listing of what each team does:

**Code Monkeys**\
 *Requirements:* Java (any amount)\
 Some code monkeys work on the interface (GUI), some work on the engine
(business logic), some work on optimizations and others perform routine
maintenance. All levels of java (even newbie) are accepted and if you've
got the time, we've got plenty to do! There is a Developer's Forum where
questions from really basic to very advanced can be asked. I'm generally
happy to let people work on the section of code that most interests (or
irritates!) them, though I ask that all developers help out with the
high priority issues (bugs or feature requests at
<http://jira.pcgen.org> ) since that's what has been deemed to be
necessary for the next production release of PCGen.

**Data Monkeys**\
 *Requirements:* Accurate typing, preferably some amount of experience
with a computer language of any kind\
 Newbie data monkeys are generally asked to do an initial swipe on a
book. Most data monkeys develop a mastery of one area of data (like
classes or feats or races), and as they advance they are asked to check
the work of other newbie data monkeys. All work currently is done in a
proprietary data language called LST (after the adopted extensions of
all the data files) and most of it is pretty easy to pick up. There are
some bits of it that are more difficult to master, and data gurus are
highly prized. :) As data is worked on, it's uploaded to
pcgen\_experimental so the Data License and Publisher teams can check
them. Once a source is completed and checked, it's added to the PCGen
releases.

**Doc Monkeys**\
 *Requirements:* Ability to describe clearly how to use software and to
present it in an appealing manner.\
 The Documentation team is responsible for making sure that the screen
pics are up-to-date and that the descriptions of how to use the
interface makes PCGen understandable for first-time users. They also
update the documentation on the LST language to help data monkeys do
their work. The documentation is done in html.

**Output Sheet Monkeys**\
 *Requirements:* Familiarity with xml/xsl/htm, preferably some java\
 Some OS Monkeys work in xml/xsl, and others work in html. It's helpful
if they also know java so they can look at the code of PCGen itself to
better understand (and even modify) what it's doing when it outputs a
character sheet.

**Publisher Liaison Monkeys**\
 *Requirements:* Desire to communicate to publishers and ability to
communicate clearly\
 Since this group is our contact point with all publishers, it's a small
group.

**Data License Monkeys**\
 *Requirements:* Ability to understand and explain licenses like the
OGL, LGPL and other licenses with which PCGen must comply.\
 This team checks all data to make sure that it complies with the
[OpenGamingLicense](/credits/ogl-license.html) , the [Lesser
GPL](/credits/gnu-license.html) and any other licenses that apply to
PCGen. Any issues found are immediately reported - to
pcgen\_experimental if it's a data issue, to the [JIRA issue
tracker](/faq/bug-report.html) if it's a code issue.

**Admin Monkeys**\
 This is the team that monitors the pcgen yahoo group for bug and
feature requests. Any bugs that are confirmed are entered as a issue in
the appropriate areas. After the confirm/reject a report, they respond
to the user's post to indicate the issue number or to indicate that they
couldn't reproduce it. Some Admin staff help monitor the Files folders
where users can upload character files that exhibit a bug they're
reporting. Other Admin staff help monitor all items submitted to the
various groups and make sure they're not duplicates, and adjust the
priority on the item according to the list of rules supplied by the
Board of Directors.

If you have time and talent, which team should you join? All the teams
are always looking for new people to join. It's understood that there's
a learning curve for anyone new, but we were all there once so we're all
glad to help mentor any willing volunteers. PCGen is a lot of fun
because it helps make our games more manageable and because the teams
get along so well. If you get tired of one team, it's no problem to
switch to another. If you're not sure which team to join and you think
you fit the needs for a few of them - let us know and we'll be glad to
put you wherever the most dire need currently resides.

------------------------------------------------------------------------



