+++
date = "2016-08-01"
title = "Feats and Abilities Tab"
original_url = "/tab/feats-and-abilities.html"

[menu.main]
    identifier = "tab_feats-and-abilities"
    name = "Feats and Abilities Tab"
    parent = "tab"
    
+++
This is the **Feats and Abilities** tab. Here the user will choose which
feats and abilities, to add to the character.

![Main Tab:
Feats](../images/tabs/featandabilitiestab/tab_featsandabilities_00_feats.png)

The **Feats and Abilities** tab has a number of additional subtabs,
starting with the **Feats** subtab. These subtabs, each representing a
different category of abilities, will depend on the data sets loaded.
Examples of some other categories of abilities you will see in PCGen's
distributed data sets include **Racial Abilities** , **Racial Traits** ,
**Class Abilities** , and many more, and all panes have the same four
panes.

Next to the word "Available" is a selection box that lets the user pick
which "view" to use. It is this view, which will be used to determine
the structure of the table below it. The same is true for the "Selected"
feats, which list the feats already selected for the PC.

By default the feats and abilities for the PC selected as optional feats
and abilities are will show in black text in the table. Feats and
abilities gained **automatically** (due to a race or class ability or
trait) are displayed in dark-yellow text. Feats and abilities gained
**virtually** (typically this means there's some restriction on them)
are displayed in magenta text. **Virtual** or **Automatic** feats and
abilities cannot be removed. Nor can the selections of **Virtual** or
**Automatic** feats and abilities be changed.

To add a feat or ability to your character you click on it and then you
click on the **Add Selected &gt;** button. You can also add an the
desired item by double-clicking on it. Similarly, to remove a feat or
ability, or to alter the internal selections of feats and abilities with
such options, e.g. **Weapon Focus (Longsword)** , you double-clicking on
it in the right pane. You can also select it in the right pane and then
clicking on the **&lt; Remove Selected** beneath the pane. As elsewhere
in PCGen anything that is not qualified for is in red italics.

The info-pane in the bottom-right pane will display details about any
feat clicked upon, including any prerequisites and its source.

------------------------------------------------------------------------



