+++
date = "2016-08-01"
title = "Spells Tab"
original_url = "/tab/spells.html"

[menu.main]
    identifier = "tab_spells"
    name = "Spells Tab"
    parent = "tab"
    
+++
The **Spells** tab is where a spellcasting character can select spells.

![Sub-Tab: Known
Spells](../images/tabs/spellstab/tab_spells_00_known.png)

The Spells Tab is divided into three sub-tabs: Known Spells, Prepared
Spells and Spell Books.

The Known Spells sub-tab is used to add spells to the PC's Known Spells
lists.

The upper left frame is where you can select which **Class** , and
**Level** you wish to be displayed in the spells tables below.

Each spell casting class will display a list on the left os all
available spells the PC could potentially learn. All spell casters have
a **Known Spells** list - in this list are all the spells the caster
knows. Spells can be added from the complete spell list on the right in
accordance to class limitations.

-   Wizards can put an unlimited number of spells in their Known Spell
    lists
-   Sorcerers and the like can only add a finite amount
-   Some classes (mostly Divine) know all spells automatically so the
    Class list will match the Known Spells list from the start without
    the need to add any.

A spell caster who must prepare spell ahead of time can use the Prepared
Spells sub-tab to create Prepared Spell lists.

A spell caster who must record spells in a spellbook can use the Spell
Books sub-tab to track which spells are kept in which books.

![Sub-Tab: Prepared
Spells](../images/tabs/spellstab/tab_spells_00_prepared.png)

The Prepared Spells sub-tab is used to create lists of spells from the
PC's Known Spells lists which represent spells the caster has at the
ready.

Spell casters, which can memorize spells, can type in a name in the
**Spell List** field and then:

-   Use the **Add** button to add a new list to the right hand top pane
-   Use the **Del** button to remove that list from the right hand top
    pane

Only spell casters that memorize spells can create prepared spell lists.

Typical uses of this are for creating a book named "Underground" to hold
which spells used when in a dungeon-crawl, or a book named "In Town" to
indicate which spells used when in a town adventure.

![Sub-Tab:
Spellbooks](../images/tabs/spellstab/tab_spells_00_spellbook.png)

The Spell Books sub-tab is used to track physical spellbooks the spell
caster possesses.

If your class uses a Spellbook to record spells in you can use the Spell
Books sub-tab to track your spellbooks. First you will need to add one
of these items to your inventory. The Spellbook (Wizard's/Blank) and the
Blessed Book items are specifically set up for this purpose, when either
item is added to your PC's list of equipment they will also appear on
the Spell Books sub-tab. It is suggested that you customize the
Spellbook (Wizard's/Blank) item to give it a unique name (such as
"Merlin's Spellbook Vol 1") making it easier to keep track of. Once you
have a spellbook in your inventory you can add your known spells to it,
each spell will take the proper number of pages according to the rules
making it easy to know when it's time to buy another spellbook.

------------------------------------------------------------------------



