+++
date = "2016-08-01"
title = "Summary Tab"
original_url = "/tab/summary.html"

[menu.main]
    identifier = "tab_summary"
    name = "Summary Tab"
    parent = "tab"
    
+++
The **Summary** tab is the starting point through which the user will
build the PC. The tab is designed to speed up character creation by
having the most commonly used aspects available for quick access.

![Summary Tab](../images/tabs/summarytab/tab_summary_00.png)

![Things to be
Done](../images/tabs/summarytab/tab_summary_01_things.png)

The **Things to be Done** pane provides a list of ot-links that, well,
list things to be done. Clicking on the link will take you to the Tab
where the task can be completed. As you complete each item it will be
removed from the list.

The **Character Name** field is for the name of the actual character for
in play use/reference.

![Naming the
Character](../images/tabs/summarytab/tab_summary_02_name.png)

If creating names from scratch is not your forte, you can use the
**Random** button found to the left of the **Character Name** field.
This button will pop up a window giving you options to create a new name
for your PC.

The **Tab Label** text field is allows you to add to your character's
name as well as to change how your character's name appears on the tab
labels within PCGen. So if your Character name was "Bob the Headsman",
and you added "The Squimish" to the **Tab Label** field, the character
output and tab labels within PCGen would display "The Squimish".

The **Player Name** text field is for your name, so that when the GM has
a stack of 50 characters, and he doesn't remember who's character is
whose by the character name, it makes their life easier.

The **Alignment** drop down menu is to select your characters alignment.

![Character
Race](../images/tabs/summarytab/tab_summary_03_race.png)![Selecting a
Character Race](../images/tabs/summarytab/tab_summary_03_raceselect.png)

The **Race** drop down menu is used for quick access to the races
available from the source materials you have loaded.

![Character
Class](../images/tabs/summarytab/tab_summary_06_class.png)![Selecting a
Character
Class](../images/tabs/summarytab/tab_summary_06_classselect.png)

The **Class** drop down menu is used for quick access to the classes
available from the source materials you have loaded. Classes that appear
in red contain prerequisites that the character does not meet. As an
example, Druids require that the character have an "Alignment" of some
flavor of "Neutral".

The **Add Levels** and **Remove Levels** section contains 3 elements:

-   A text field where you can manually enter the level you want
    to add/remove. The field is automatically loaded with a value
    of "1".
-   The **+** button will add the levels indicated in the text
    field above.
-   The **-** button will remove the levels indicated in the text
    field above.

![Creating a Default
Monster](../images/tabs/summarytab/tab_summary_09_monster.png)

The **Create Monster** button opens the [Add
Kit](/menu/edit/addkit.html) window, allowing you to apply any kits your
character qualifies for, including any Default Monster Kit. As long as
you have not selected a Race the full list of Default Monster Kits will
be available to select from. This is the fast way to create monsters,
create a new character and add a Default Monster Kit.

The **Ability Point Total** reports how many total character stat points
you have used (Starting at zero).

The **Total Mods** reports your total stat modifiers from your
characters stats.

![Modifying Hit Points](../images/tabs/summarytab/tab_summary_06_hp.png)

The **HP** button will bring up the hit points window to edit the
character's hit points.

![Character Statistics
At-a-Glance](../images/tabs/summarytab/tab_summary_08_statistics.png)

The **Statistics** window, will give you a short overview of what your
characters abilities are based upon the race and class(es) you have
selected.

------------------------------------------------------------------------



