+++
date = "2016-08-01"
title = "Shadowforce Archer Worldbook for PCGen"
original_url = "/source/spycraft/shadowforce-archer.html"

[menu.main]
    identifier = "spycraft_shadowforce-archer"
    name = "Shadowforce Archer Worldbook for PCGen"
    parent = "spycraft"
    
+++
**Game Mode: Spycraft**

ALDERAC ENTERTAINMENT GROUP &gt; SPYCRAFT &gt; CAMPAIGN SETTING

**Shadowforce Archer**

PCGen Dataset user guide
------------------------

**Updated 10/12/04**

This read me file contains information on how to make the most of this
dataset. Specifically it will alert you to work-around's for Spycraft
rules that PCGen does not currently support.

### Chambers

The Chambers are represented in PCGen by a series of templates which can
be found in the bottom pane of the department tab. They are mutually
exclusive as your PC may only belong to only one at a time. You will
need to choose one manually and they are removable. Any option which has
membership in a certain Chamber as a requirement will use these
templates to test for qualification. Your PC's chosen Chamber will
appear on the output sheet in the list of Templates.

### Class Abilities

The Psion classes have an ability called Psi Mastery, which allows the
psion to choose a psion skill that he has at least 1 rank in and gain a
bonus in. At this time PCGen will produce a list of all skills the
character has ranks in and cannot at this time limit the list to just
those psionic skills the character has ranks in, its up to you to select
the appropriate skill.

### Feats

Several of the basic psion feats provide enhancements to a chosen
psionic skill the character has ranks in. For that reason you should
spend you skill points before taking any of these feats. Also note that
PCGen will produce a list of all skills the character has ranks in and
cannot at this time limit the list to just those psionic skills the
character has ranks in, its up to you to select the appropriate skill.

The feat **Heightened Inner Strength** is a complicated one that cannot
be fully supported. The main problem is that the feat applies bonuses to
the PC every five levels after the level the PC has chosen the feat and
there is not mechanism in PCGen to test for which level the feat was
added. As a work around there is a second feat in the list named
**Heightened Inner Strength Bonuses** which will allow you to apply the
bonuses manually. The first time you add the Heightened Inner Strength
feat you will be given the choice of which ability to enhance and one
feat slot will be used. At the appropriate level you can add the next
ability enhancement by choosing **Heightened Inner Strength Bonuses**
which will offer the same choices but will not cost you a feat slot.
This method used six hidden feats each of which can add up to 2 points
to an ability and in that regard the rules are enforced. Because of the
way this is set up it has the potential to incorrectly add points to
your feat pool. If you choose the **Heightened Inner Strength Bonuses**
feat and do not choose an ability bonus, one point will be incorrectly
added to you feat pool. You can also use the **Heightened Inner Strength
Bonuses** feat to remove bonuses but bear in mind that this too will
incorrectly add points to your feat pool.

The feat **Evolved Mind** feat will add skill points to your highest
Mentalist class level, so if you have multi-classed the points will not
appear in your current class skill point pool if that class is not
Mentalist. Use the 'Skill point left for class' pop up menu to find your
highest Mentalist level and spend those points there. Since this feat
makes all skill class skills for the Mentalist it does not matter where
there are spent.



